README.md, before:

# ac3-book - Gateway to the (AC)³ research project on Arctic amplification

[Latest build](https://ac3-tr.github.io/ac3-book/)

This repository holds a jupyter book (version 2) with 

- background information
- data descriptions
- example use cases

about and from the Transregional Collaborative Research Centre (TRR 172) on Arctic Amplification: Climate Relevant Atmospheric and Surface Processes, and Feedback Mechanisms (AC)³ (2015 - 2027).

This book is being build as a legacy of (AC)³ and should help researchers learn more about our research results and quickly find the data, on which we based our results.
Thus, it aims to be finished by the end of 2027.

## Roadmap

- [ ] Develop structure of the book
- [ ] Incorporate [ac3-notebooks](xref:ac3notebooks) and [ac3airborne](xref:ac3airborne)
- [ ] Develop a template to provide members to add example notebooks showcasing the use of some data
- [ ] Link each example notebook to the platform(s) and data source(s) it uses
- [ ] List all example notebooks on the page of the respective platform(s) that created the data for it
- [ ] Port information from the website to the book
- [ ] Port information from campaign wikis and websites to the book

## Contribute

Help to grow this project by raising an issue or suggesting an edit directly at one of the book pages.
You can also open a pull request if you want to add more example notebooks.

## References and Inspiration

- [How to EUREC4A](https://howto.eurec4a.eu/intro.html)
- [How to ac3airborne](https://igmk.github.io/how_to_ac3airborne/intro.html)
- [Orcestra](https://orcestra-campaign.org/intro.html)
- [jupyter book v2](https://next.jupyterbook.org/)
- [MystMD](https://mystmd.org/)

## License

 ac3-book © 2025 by the Transregional Collaborative Research Centre 172 (AC)³ is licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/?ref=chooser-v1)

Commit message:

Add local setup section and license information

README.md, after:

# ac3-book - Gateway to the (AC)³ research project on Arctic amplification

[Latest build](https://ac3-tr.github.io/ac3-book/)

This repository holds a [jupyter book (version 2)](https://next.jupyterbook.org/) with 

- background information
- data descriptions
- example use cases

about and from the Transregional Collaborative Research Centre (TRR 172) on Arctic Amplification: Climate Relevant Atmospheric and Surface Processes, and Feedback Mechanisms (AC)³ (2015 - 2027).

This book is being build as a place of exchange for researches inside and outside the (AC)³ project. It should help you learn more about our research results and quickly find the data, on which we based our results.

## Roadmap

- [ ] Develop structure of the book
- [ ] Incorporate [ac3-notebooks](xref:ac3notebooks) and [ac3airborne](xref:ac3airborne)
- [ ] Develop a template to provide members to add example notebooks showcasing the use of some data
- [ ] Link each example notebook to the platform(s) and data source(s) it uses
- [ ] List all example notebooks on the page of the respective platform(s) that created the data for it
- [ ] Port information from the website to the book
- [ ] Port information from campaign wikis and websites to the book

## Contribute

Help to grow this project by raising an issue ~~or suggesting an edit directly at one of the book pages~~ (to be implemented by the mystmd book theme).
You can also open a pull request if you want to add more example notebooks.

### Local Setup

"Jupyter Book 2 is a very thin wrapper around the MyST-MD engine: it shares the same CLI and configuration file. It serves primarily as an introduction of the existing Jupyter Book community to the MyST-MD engine.
If you're new to the Jupyter Book project, consider [directly using MyST-MD](https://mystmd.org/guide/quickstart)." (from [next.jupyterbook.org](https://next.jupyterbook.org/start/install))

We follow this advice in the description below.

Here's how to set up the ac3-book book for local development.

1. [Fork the repo](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks) on GitHub.
2. Clone your fork locally.
3. Create a python environment with all dependencies, e.g., by using `conda`: `conda env create -f environment.yml`
4. [Create a branch](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Branches-in-a-Nutshell) for local development and make changes locally. See the [mystmd guide](https://mystmd.org/guide) for help on syntax.
5. Build the book locally to see if the fully-rendered HTML version looks as intended.
   ```sh
   cd book  # change into the book directory
   myst start  # start your local webserver
   ```
6. Commit your changes and push your branch to your fork on GitHub.
7. [Create a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) through the GitHub website.

## References and Inspiration

- [How to EUREC4A](https://howto.eurec4a.eu/intro.html)
- [How to ac3airborne](https://igmk.github.io/how_to_ac3airborne/intro.html)
- [Orcestra](https://orcestra-campaign.org/intro.html)
- [jupyter book v2](https://next.jupyterbook.org/)
- [MystMD](https://mystmd.org/)

## License

 Content in the ac3-book © 2025 by the Transregional Collaborative Research Centre 172 (AC)³ is licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/?ref=chooser-v1)
 
Code within this repository is licensed under [MIT](https://opensource.org/license/MIT).
